Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 221, I think, recorded, when is it? February 17th, 2021.
I am Brian Okken.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And we also have Brett Cannon. Yeah. I always talk over the third person. I'm not sure why.
- You're always going like,
is there gonna be an introduction
or should I just join the Brady Bunch theme?
Let's just go in a circle and just introduce ourselves.
- Well, if we're gonna do Brady Bunch,
we gotta have more people so we can like fill out,
what is that, like rows of three or whatever in the picture.
- I'm sure Anthony Shaw and Paul Everett are available
based on how often they show up here.
So I'm sure they're waiting in the wings.
- That's right, we'll just swoop them in here
for the right picture.
Well, welcome, Brett.
It's great to have you here.
- Thanks, lovely to be back.
- You know what, Brian,
I'm impressed with Brett's microphone.
he has mastered the work from home.
- Yeah, I love this.
We're gonna have to put a link
in the show notes to this thing.
- Tell people about this.
So, Brian and I both have good microphones.
We have many different microphones we've tried,
but yours has a visual aspect, which is unusual for audio.
- Yeah, so it's a HyperX Quadcast S specifically,
and it comes with RGB lighting
'cause it's really a gamer mic.
But obviously in pandemic times, I work from home,
and my wife is also at home because of the pandemic.
And we always had an issue of her wanting to come in
and not knowing whether I was actually occupied,
actually in a meeting, because I'm in them a lot for work,
or whether or not I was just sitting there
with my headphones on listening to music or whatever,
and she could totally just walk in.
And so the great thing about this microphone
is if it has a touch sensitive top,
and if you tap it, the LEDs turn off.
And so it acts as like an on-air light for the room.
I mean, it's not that bright specifically,
but if she opens the door, she can totally just look in
and go, is the mic lit?
And if the mic's not lit, she knows she's not going
to be heard or be directly interrupting me
and I can just turn and answer any questions she has
and it's awesome, it works out great that way.
- That is so fantastic, the whole mic glows
when it's on and active, different colors,
it's beautiful, I love it.
- Yeah, and you can even change which colors it uses.
This is, I can't remember if it's waterfall or not,
but you can actually change how the color spectrum changes
from side to side in terms of colors
and whether it's top to bottom or not.
It's very pretty.
I think I once did Harry Potter color themed
for a co-worker of mine who's a big Harry Potter fan
for all the houses.
And I've purposely not played with it
and kept with the defaults
'cause it's definitely one of those things
I could totally nerd out on
and play with the colors all day long.
I tried Python colors once.
The transitions didn't look quite as nice, but you know.
- Yeah, no, it's good.
I have the microphone that matches,
or sorry, the mouse that matches it.
- Oh, nice.
- And it pulses, so.
I didn't get it for the color,
but it's the only one I could get that had color.
I'm like, why is it of color?
how do I turn this off?
But no, it just has colors, fine.
But anyway, great mic.
I think people should check that out.
If they have weird work from home situations
and people are interrupting, it's super cool, I love it.
- Definitely get a mic stand though.
The default stand's a little low
and I have found that getting a cheap $10, $15 stand,
I got this from Amazon, that pushes it off about seven inches
I think, I'm trying to do the American units.
It pushes up about 15 centimeters.
- Perfect.
sweet spot in terms of distance while still not completely
taking up your vision in the screen.
- Yeah, excellent, excellent.
Well, Brian, you wanna kick us off here
with our first topic?
- Yeah, well, we've got, it's hard to keep up with
Will McCougan, sorry Will.
Will wrote Rich, which is a, I forget what he calls it.
Basically it's a CLI tool, but there's been a whole bunch
are really cool things he's done recently, like really recently.
So in December, he added Live View,
which allows you to just--
it continually updates whenever an event happens
or something in that part of the screen, which is cool.
He didn't write a blog post on that.
But then in January, Tree View came out.
And the Tree Views are lovely.
You can do all sorts of stuff with the tree view.
And yeah, it's a nice thing to have in a CLI tool.
And then what's really impressive to me,
I think was layouts.
So this month he released layouts
and it allows you to split the screen up
and his demo even shows it happening
like within a VS Code when terminal--
>> Oh, yeah. Within the bottom terminal part of VS Code.
Yeah. Brett, you've heard of this, right?
You've heard of this tool?
>> How can I not? I'm a fan of the podcast and Brian loves this tool,
so I've heard about it multiple times.
>> I guess we've covered it before.
But one of the reasons why I'm covering it again,
there's a couple of reasons, is the layout's neat,
and really, now I want to click on stuff and I want to do entry.
And he sort of hinted at that, that he's kind of going towards a full TUI, which I had never
heard of before, text user interface.
Yeah, TUIs.
All right.
Right on.
That'd be cool.
So I think that would be neat.
And I'd like to encourage that.
So the other thing that's going on with Rich is he's accepting sponsorships now.
And it's kind of hidden in the demo window, but we're highlighting it on the show so more
people can know about it.
So GitHub is doing sponsorships on GitHub,
and I like how GitHub sponsorships work.
It's kind of neat.
So check it out.
The other thing that I guess when I was playing
with these layout things,
that I didn't really realize before
is you can just say Python-m rich,
and it shows a little demo of a whole bunch of stuff.
And then some of the particular parts of it,
you can demo them individually.
Like for the layout, you can say Python-mrich.layout,
and it'll show a demo.
The tree is also as a demo, and the live one actually,
I couldn't escape it, I had to kill my window.
So the live one just continually updates some,
like some, I think it does,
I don't know if it's actually doing,
going out to the internet,
but it's doing some like conversions of monetary conversions
and it just kept updating and it doesn't hit Control + C.
So.
- Someone's got a bare except somewhere they shouldn't have.
(laughing)
- I think it's very reliable.
I mean, the only way to exit it is Force Quit.
So we're all.
- Kill Dash 9.
Where's your friend?
- So yeah, I'd love to have Rich continue with this
and make it a full TUI, that'd be fun.
- That would be very cool.
'Cause the presentation is really nice here.
- I will also fully support Will
making this a full-on thing,
'cause actually a couple months ago,
I did a slight dive on a weekend
trying to find some Tui libraries,
'cause I have a personal project for work purposes
that I've been trying to do a GUI for,
and two years in a row,
I've tried to do it during hackathon week at Microsoft,
and I keep failing 'cause I don't have enough time
to dive into all the GUI libraries that go from like,
here's how to do Hello World, here's the reference.
And it's like, no, no, I need more steps there.
- Where's that middle ground, come on.
- Yeah, exactly.
And then I decided, oh, well,
I totally could just do this in Curses.
It's literally just to keep track of what I do every day.
And it's just like, it's snippets from Google
is where I picked up the habit of just literally just,
oh, I did this today that was out of ordinary.
I did this today that was out of ordinary,
just to kind of track the high level,
not just meetings,
but I actually did something different today.
And it's like, oh, I could totally do this in the Terminal.
like suddenly pull up in Cursor's library,
it's in the Snider library, and it's like,
oh yes, you need to know the size of your terminal window
and all this other stuff, and oh,
how to move the cursor to this specific position.
It's like, yeah, no, I still don't have time for this.
So if we're just gonna move this along
and make input work, I mean,
I would be totally down for giving it a shot.
- Yeah, yeah, quite cool.
And if people don't know, you kind of live an alter ego.
You've got a BrightCannon open source steering council
and also work closely with VS Code at Microsoft, right?
So having the screenshot on the screen is right at home.
- Yeah, yeah.
Just for people who don't know,
I'm the dev manager for the Python extension for VS Code.
That's how I pay for my open source habit,
which includes being on the Python steering council
on the core dev.
- Yeah, quite cool.
So, Gendalforf says, "I've been using Prompt Toolkit
"for the Tui library for a while,
"but this Rich seems a lot nicer
"if it actually accepted input,"
which I agree, it seems very cool.
- And I've heard some people using them together,
I just don't know how to do that.
So, if somebody wants to write a tutorial
on how to use both Rich and Prompt Toolkit together,
that'd be cool.
- Yeah, that would be cool, actually.
All right, what I wanna talk about
is this article I ran across
and some tools that I went to play with afterwards
after reading it called 12 requests per second.
Sounds amazing, right?
So it's a realistic look at a web frameworks
and Python web frameworks.
So if you look out there, you'll hear things like,
oh, we're getting 100,000 requests per second on UV loop
with a single thread.
Or, you know, we've got Sanic doing 100,000 requests
or even to pronto up to 1.2 million requests per second,
which is amazing.
And then a lot of these examples are doing
like really not real type of work.
They're just doing some little tiny thing like,
oh, here, let's add two numbers
and tell you how fast we can do that.
So this article is a more like,
well, let's go through a real application
and see what kind of performance you might expect.
So I thought it'd be fun to talk about this
'cause it gives some people some things to think about.
You know, how can you compare your app
to these types of quotes that people are getting and so on?
And would it be better to choose something like
Depronto or AIOHTP or FastAPI or something like that
over say Flask or Django,
which don't have so much support for things like async.
So I thought this was fun to go through
and just kind of look at it.
they start out by profiling just sort of a Hello World app
and they get, all right, well,
the Hello World's pretty good.
If you run Flask on CPython, you get,
I don't know, some amount here, maybe it was 500 to 1,000.
You run it on PyPy, they were able to get 3,000.
You run it, and so that's just, you know, Flask run, right?
Which is not really the way
you should probably be doing things.
You should be running on G-Unicorn or MicroWizGy
or something like that.
So if they ran the same thing on unicorn,
it's up to like 12,000 and you run it on,
compare that against Sanic,
you get, Sanic was doing like 24,000 or something.
So these comparisons I thought would be fun for people.
You can go through, they've got a bunch of graphs
that you can check out, but then they write one
that actually talks to a database doing databasey things.
And then let me get down to the numbers here,
the bottom for that.
And they're like, okay, well, with this one,
Now we're running at quite a bit lower request per second.
And I think in the end, they said for our real app,
what we ended up with is a whopping
like 12 requests per second.
Yeah, here we go.
Here's the graph I was looking for.
Where like, this is Flask
running the synchronous Postgres driver there.
And that's all pretty interesting.
I think, even be able to answer the question,
you know, well, what about me? What about my app? How would it do if I were to run these things against it?
And we've talked about Locust before.
Locust is a really fantastic way to write
load testing and user interaction testing against
websites, web APIs, and so on. And it's all about Python. So what you do with this is you go through and you write
some kind of class and you say, okay, here's a test
like a representation of what people might do to my website.
They might log in, they might go view the episode page
if we were testing the Python Bytes site,
or they go check out the episode page,
they might drill into an episode, they might do a search.
And what you can do is you write simple little bits
of Python to say, here's a function that does this action,
here's a function that does that action,
like here's one that goes to the episode listing.
And then you can actually,
it's not shown in the example here,
but you can say things like, well, 10 out of 15 times
I want them to view an episode page,
one out of the 10 times I want them to do a search,
and three out of the 10 times
I want them to actually go to the listing, right?
So you can sort of break it up
to what the normal look would be.
Then you just run Locust and you get like this web UI
where you enter some information and then it just runs,
if you want even in a distributed way, against your site
and then pounds it until it gives up, basically.
Brett, have you heard of this tool?
- No, I actually haven't.
I mean, you hear about different tools
for different things, but this is pretty,
looking at this example, it's pretty simple,
which is pretty great.
- Yeah, the simplicity is really great.
And then when you run it, you actually get a web view
into it, and the web UI lets you basically control
and monitor the tests in real time.
So anyway, coming back to some numbers off of that,
I decided, well, if they're getting 12 to 80 requests
per second, what does my stuff look like?
For example, a talk to Python training stuff,
it's not using any of this async stuff.
How is it doing?
So it's Python 3, MicroWizKey, Pyramid, MongoDB on a $20
server.
Would it get 12 requests per second?
I don't know.
So I turned this thing loose, and it'll
do about 125 requests per second, which I felt better than.
That's better than 12.
I felt pretty good.
But one of the things that's cool about Locust is you can tell it,
not just I want you to use this partitioning,
but also I would like you to have a distribution of how often the user
actually does something.
So you can say, well, this user is going to make between every 10 to 60 seconds,
it's going to do one of these things among this mix.
So instead of just pounding it, it's like,
well, an average user doesn't just hit F5
or Control + Command + R as hard as they can.
They move around and they pause, right?
So you can pause that.
So I don't know, maybe it's 10 to 20,000 realistic users
I was able to sort of map out with this.
Anyway, it was just a fun deep dive into like,
well, what does performance look like?
How important is async?
Some of the tools to do it.
I don't know, if people are, if that's interesting people,
Definitely check out this 12 requests per second
article here.
I think you'll enjoy it.
Then also check out Locusts
if you wanna try to answer that question for yourself.
- So I was curious how, when you're testing your site,
did anybody else like experience downtime or something
while you're being on it?
- Well, so that's the question, right?
Like with the Locusts thing,
you can start to see what the like real time,
what the response times are and everything.
It never crashed.
It just got a little bit slow.
So I ran it locally, and I'm like,
well, what's it look like in production, right?
So I'm like, I really want to know.
With all the way that everything's put together,
what number will I get?
So I'm like, I'm just going to turn it loose on it,
and if it starts to overwhelm it,
I'll just hit the stop button.
And it never died.
It just got to where it took like three or 400 milliseconds
to get back to me.
So it was okay.
- Okay, good.
- Yeah, so pretty fun.
Pretty fun example there.
- I think one other thing I appreciate
about that blog post actually
was they pointed out towards the end that at some point,
scaling is no longer a Python problem
and it's an infrastructure problem.
Like, oh, it's probably better to update
your database and stuff.
And I've heard this from a lot of people too,
of there's kind of a misnomer
if you're not in the Python community that,
oh, Python's so slow, it's gonna be your bottleneck.
And instead I've heard it from a lot of people
in the community that, oh, actually it's not,
I can get it done, get my work done in a third of a time
and then the two thirds of time it would have taken me
to do it in, I don't know, Java,
just choose a different language.
I can optimize my infrastructure, and guess what?
I end up with the same performance
with more time to bug fix and test
than I would have in the other platform.
And the other thing is, is obviously,
there is always throwing more hardware at the problem
if you need a horizontally scale.
But, and honestly, I think when I say this post also,
I think from what Craig pointed out,
not everyone needs 1,000 requests a second.
- Yeah.
Most people don't.
Even popular websites are not doing 1,000.
I mean, that's a lot of requests, 1,000 requests a second.
- Like, most people measure in queries per minute,
not per second, right?
So like even 12 per second, like we're still talking 720,
if my math is not finding me on the spot,
requests per minute, right?
That's still a decent cliff.
Like, if you're running a business
that's getting that much traffic every single minute,
you're probably still doing pretty good for yourself.
- Yeah, that's 32 million page views per month, right?
- Yeah.
- That's like, you're at a limit
where you got some real stuff going on,
some real infrastructure at that point.
- Well, okay, so, but there's also,
if I've got services running,
I've got a bunch of services that include this.
I mean, one user interaction isn't one hit.
It might be dozens, so.
- Yeah, so my rule of thumb is honestly,
don't worry unless you're going over 100 a second.
Like, you should be able to hit 100 a second
without too much effort,
and then after that you might have to start
doing some planning,
but I would suspect as a general rule of thumb,
you can handle hundreds without a whole lot of effort
in Python.
- Yeah.
- And if you get into a thousand,
you might have to do a bit more planning for it,
but it's totally serviceable for that kind of thing.
- Yeah, totally agree.
Magnus Carlsen has a quick comment.
Nice, so I can now see if my work
turning my FastAPI app into async was worth it.
Yes, you can.
It's a very good use of that.
- I'm gonna be biased and just say
it was totally worth it, Magnus.
You just don't know yet.
(both laughing)
- Because it's got the cool new design patterns, absolutely.
- Exactly.
- All right, Brett, you're up next.
You've got something special for us.
- Yeah, so the world exclusive news-breaking thing
is the Python launcher for Unix is probably at RC stage.
For those of you who don't know about this,
It's a project I've been working on since May of 2018.
And if you're a Windows user,
you probably know what I'm talking about,
but on Windows, there's a little app
called the Python Launcher for Windows,
and it ships with Python and it gives you the py command.
So sometimes you might see this on websites
where they say, well, if you're on Windows,
you run Python using py, and then the command
and other platforms just run with Python 3.
And I decided that I kind of wanted this on Unix.
I had had enough people complain to me
about like how it's difficult to get started
where having the Windows instructions
on how to run something was always different
from the Unix version and all this.
- Yeah, that is really annoying.
The very first thing you gotta do,
like right at the start, like, oh, it's so easy,
but there's these two ways.
There's like this diversion, right?
- Exactly.
And I saw some benefit to the Python launcher
because what it does on Windows is it serves kind of
two key purposes.
One is it kind of makes up for the lack of shebang support
on Windows because the launcher will actually look
for a shebang line, figure out what version of Python
is required and then finds the right version of Python
to run it.
The other thing is it does away with the need
of caring about what order you installed your Pythons in.
'Cause like for instance on Unix, like Python 3,
what does that point at?
Well, what it points at is the last version of Python 3
that you installed, not the newest version of Python.
So if you installed 3.9 today, but then installed the 3.8
security release that I think happened yesterday,
you will get 3.8 as your version for Python 3.
So if you don't specify Python 3.9, you won't be running it.
You have to either create your virtual environment
and be using it that way or remember that.
Python Launcher takes care of all that.
It will automatically just figure out
what versions you have installed and just
automatically run the newest version.
And so I really liked that.
So I decided to implement it in Rust,
partially as a Rust project of decent size,
and it's about a thousand lines of Rust code.
And also 'cause I wanted it, because if this works out,
hopefully some projects can stop listing
two different ways to run things.
So in the Unix version,
it's a little different from the Windows version,
and I'll ask for feedback from the two of you
and anyone in the live stream if they wanna provide it.
is first it looks to see if a virtual environment is activated.
So it looks for the virtual under env environment variable,
and if it's there, it just uses that.
So automatically, this is a little shorter and easier
if you have an activated virtual environment.
It's just py now instead of having to type Python.
The next one is if you have--
You're here to save us from RSI already.
I'm kidding, but this is really interesting. Keep going.
Yeah, yeah. One third of the typing.
The other thing is if you create a virtual environment
in a .venv directory,
it will also automatically use that without activation.
So once again, if you use the,
I personally think standard nomenclature,
naming your virtual environments .venv,
you don't have to activate them anymore
because activation is just a shorthand for the shell
that honestly I typically just use
to make Python do the right thing
because I use -m for everything,
even when I'm in an activated environment.
this takes care of that entire step for me.
So I don't have to activate my environments anymore.
- Okay, that's super cool.
- After that, it does the shebang, just like on Windows,
trying to figure out what the right Python
might be for that.
And then after that, it checks some environment variables.
Like if you wanna, if you have 3.10 installed,
for instance, for Python, you have an alpha installed,
but you wanna make sure that if you ever say,
hey, if I say Python, if I run Pi with no arguments
or say, hey, I wanna run a Python 3 version of Python,
you can actually set the environment variables
to restrict it and basically specify
the exact version you want.
And then after that, it just, if none of that triggers,
it just finds the newest version and runs that.
I've been running this personally for a while.
And when I added the .venv support,
I've completely switched.
I don't even bother typing Python anymore
'cause this completely fits my workflow
of just doing exactly what I think it should do
whenever I need.
Now, the question I have for the two of you
and anyone in the audience who cares to answer
is do you think prioritizing virtual environments
over shebangs makes sense?
Now my argument is yes,
obviously or else I wouldn't have done it this way.
But this is supposed to be,
I don't know how much of this is a Unixism
versus just in general,
because I do hope to actually add Windows support
to this as well and make this a universal Python launcher.
So the reason I did it this way was,
on Unix you can just chmod a file
and add the executable bit
and that's how you can execute it.
And honestly, most of my files at this point
are gonna be in a virtual environment anyway,
whether installed via PIPX or I create an entry point
and I install that.
So once again, I don't need the shebang directly.
It's just gonna be baked into the executable.
And Windows will do the exact same thing, right?
Like set of tools will give you that little shim.
So to me, if I am running in a project directory
with a virtual environment, whether activated or not,
I'm assuming that's what I want.
Don't try to figure it out for me
or else I'd be running this somewhere else.
and I would not have a virtual environment installed.
- Yeah. - Does that logic
make sense?
Do people, do you two think I made the right decision here
in choosing virtual environments over shebang lines
or am I crazy?
- I forgot shebangs were even supported.
- I'm all about virtual environments, yes.
- Okay, cool.
- I think this is fantastic.
I've long wanted an easy way to just say,
I'm down inside.
Maybe you can tell me if it works this way.
does it traverse up looking for a virtual environment?
Like if I'm in a sub directory and I try to pie a file,
but one directory up, there's a virtual environment.
Will it go up and find that and then use it?
- No, I did not implement it that way.
It would not be too difficult to do it that way.
But for simplicity reasons, when I first plugged this in,
for my purposes, I'm not an SRC guy
like Brian is, for instance.
So I don't need to worry about that as much.
But that'd be totally reasonable feature request
NAS Core to build a traverse up a directories
looking for the .vnv directory.
- Yeah, very cool.
- I'm down a level in my SRC,
go up a level to find the actual--
- Right, like I have a lot of things
that will do like maintenance for my website.
So I'll have like a bin folder
as one of the sub folders of my website.
Then I'll go in there and I wanna run something.
If I like, oh, I should have run
and gone up and then bin slash, right?
I think it'd just be really cool.
Like I'm sort of in the realm of this virtual environment,
even if it's not at the same working directory.
- Yeah, and one thing I do wanna clarify here
is this is very much about simplifying
running Python manually.
It is not meant to completely replace running Python, right?
Like a misnomer I hear from people
when I tell them about this is like,
oh, hey, are you gonna add a config file
to be able to alias to PyPy
versus specifically, or this thing,
or a framework builder, that thing is.
And for me is if you have that kind of specific requirement
of a specific version of Python you have installed,
just use the absolute paths of that version of Python.
I don't think this is purely for,
I just want the newest version.
I don't care what it is, just give it to me.
Or I have a virtual environment,
just give me the virtual environment.
I don't wanna have to think about it.
If you have to put thought into what kind of Python
you want to run, I think you should be specifying
that manually, not be using this.
- Well, so on the side of the,
being able to go up a couple of directories
looking for virtual environments,
I'm often not in the source directory.
I'm often sitting in the tests directory
running pytest on stuff, in which case,
I guess I already am in a virtual environment,
so it doesn't matter.
But I might just open up another terminal
and try to, you know, just run Python.
So I like this.
I'm excited to hear that this is eventually
going to be a Windows thing also, hopefully.
I don't actually normally use the Python launcher on Windows
- It doesn't do looking for virtual environments, does it?
- No, that is exclusive to the Unix version of this launcher.
(laughing)
So basically the environment variable it will use,
it doesn't actually look on path,
it completely uses the Windows registry.
It does the shebang and that's it.
So looking in the .venv folder, that is entirely my edition
and the order of execution here is kind of tweaked
to what I think.
And it doesn't search on path actually.
So that's a Unix thing specifically.
But I suspect this actually helped with the Windows Store,
although I think Steve Dower fixed that issue
with the Windows Store install.
But yeah, so,
yeah, there's slight tweaks.
But I figure if I have all the logic done already,
there's no reason not to just make it universal
to support multiple platforms.
So, why not?
- Yeah.
- So your announcement here has kind of lit up
the live stream.
So ZDocs is just a Brett Cannon fan, which is awesome.
Gendaforth asks, "Is the Rust version cross-platform?"
Is there a chance of this on Windows?
- No, I don't really, I've not tried it on Windows.
It definitely works on Mac and Linux, right?
So it truly is Unix-based, so it will handle that no problem.
I have not tried to wire it up into the registry at all,
So that's not there.
I have an open enhancement issue to do that.
I honestly don't know what would happen
if you tried running on some Windows.
I haven't tried.
Like everything's very hard coded to Unix at the moment
just to get this done.
Like if you look at the readme,
you'll notice everything is slash bin.
- Slash user slash bin, yeah.
- There's no scripts support here.
If slash one I do Windows support,
obviously I'll look at fix,
but I have tried putting zero effort
because the Python launcher for Windows
just comes with the install from python.org, right?
So there was no real time pressure to try to get that done.
So I haven't tried it.
- I'm a big fan.
I could try this on my macOS and I'd be happy now.
- Yeah, this is how I do it.
I have it on my Mac.
I just install,
you do have to install Rust to install it right now
'cause I haven't figured out how to do
distributable binaries that you can just download.
But yeah, if you have Rust installed,
which you can get through RustUp or Humber or whatever,
it's just a cargo install away.
So if you want to get a shot, please do so.
- Fantastic.
- I kind of forgot that my Mac was Unix-C.
(laughing)
- That's right, and then Magnus agrees
on the VMV over Shebang.
- Awesome.
- Gandalf Force is same as well.
I don't think I've ever seen a Shebang
that was more specific than user bin Python 3 anyway.
- Yeah, and I actually suspect the Shebang support
was partially because the Python launch has been around
back in Python 2 days, right?
Where that was much more of a concern.
So like, as I said, I started this in 2018.
So it was pre-Python 2 deprecation.
So it's still supported there.
But a lot of this, I think, was also partially
to support the 2 to 3 transition.
So those little extras here I don't
think are quite as important, unless Python 4
happens someday, which there are zero plans for.
So I don't think so.
Yeah, don't hold your breath.
By the way, one extra nicety I want to tell people
is if you're a Starship user, the Starship cross shell
prompt, there is a setting in Starship
that lets you specify how it figures out
what version of Python you have.
Now, it does look for virtualenv,
but otherwise it has a list of binaries
that it will execute to try to figure out what
version of Python you have.
If you set it to Pi using this, it will always
tell you either what the virtual environments Python
version is in the prompt or whatever the newest
version of Python is installed.
So it has a really nice side effect,
because if you read the docs in Starship,
there's a big tip saying, hey, if you have a Python installed
that's default, i.e. macOS, and it'll always say 2.7
unless you happen to have an activated virtual environment,
which always threw me, 'cause it's like,
yeah, I'm not using 2.7 in this project.
As soon as I added this support for .venv files
and tweaked my Starship config for this,
it always tells me the exact version
that I happen to have set up for my virtual environment.
It's really handy.
- For those of us not in the know, what's Starship?
So Starship is a cross-platform shell prompt tool.
So it's written in Rust,
but basically what you do is it has instructions
for Bash and Zeesh and Phish and PowerShell
and everything else.
And basically it just gives you a line.
Brian's got it pulled up on the screen
for those on the live stream.
And it's basically just an easy way to just say like,
hey, this is how I want my prompt to look.
Don't worry about whether it being Bash or Zeesh or Phish,
whatever, like I'm a Phish user.
I'm sure Michael's property is this user being a macOS user
like he is.
Yep.
But it shouldn't matter.
My prompts is a prompt.
And pretty much, they have pretty consistent user support.
So I just said, yeah, you know what?
I like some of the niceties it has automatically baked in.
It does like notification-- it changed the prompt
for the usual, oh, I edited my Git checkout.
It'll tell you what branch you're on,
all these little nice things.
And setting Firo code as my font gives me
all the nice little glyphs that I want.
And so I said, nice, all right, cool.
It'll tell me what version of Python is currently activated.
Except for that annoyance of being on Mac,
it kept saying, oh, you've got 2.7 until I activated.
And I was like, no, I don't like this.
So I prioritized getting the .vnv done.
And then lo and behold, it magically now tells me
exactly what I want for Python.
- Nice.
- Wow, that's super cool.
Yeah, now we know, Starship, fantastic.
- Yeah, so before we move on, I'd like to thank our sponsor.
So this episode of Python Bytes is brought to you
by Datadog.
Are you having trouble visualizing latency,
CPU and memory bottlenecks in your apps
and not sure where the issue is coming from
or how to solve it?
Datadog seamlessly correlates logs and traces
at the level of individual requests,
allowing you to quickly troubleshoot
your Python application.
Plus their continuous profiler allows you to find
most resource consuming parts in your production code all the time at any scale with minimal
overhead.
Be the hero that got your app back on track at your company.
Get started today with a free trial at pythonbytes.fm/datadog or just click the link in your podcast player
show notes.
Ooh, that's neat.
Yeah, very cool.
Thanks, Datadog.
So Brett, I want to take you down a little bit lower.
fits turtles all the way down, a few turtles down,
to this whole TUI world, and talk about this thing
called Build a Text Editor with Python and Curses.
Is curses, is that what you do when you get upset
because it's too low level, or?
Oh no, it's about the curses, sorry.
Okay.
- Gotta remember, I'm on the Python Bytes podcast.
There are gonna be jokes like that.
- They're gonna be bad too, by the way.
So, now here's a really cool article by Wasim Lorgat
about basically walking you through building a text editor
like Vim or Emacs in the terminal using Curses,
which is a library that lets you control
what happens on the screen much better than like Print
and Log and Warn and whatnot.
So there's a couple of just interesting things.
I thought going through this might just give people
a sense of like what it's like to work with Curses
and then there's this context of this text editor
you can play with.
So for example, a minimal Curses app,
All you gotta do is define a function.
That's your main function.
And then while true, go to the screen and get the key.
And that's it.
You just say get key
and it just gives you whatever it gets pressed.
Without any help here,
there's probably not a way to get out of it.
No, maybe control C, but yeah,
there's not like a quit or anything.
So you can really easily add like some tasks and say,
well, if they gave me the key,
escape then show the little colon,
you can WQ exclamation mark, whatever,
to get out of it.
However you wanna exit your text editor
that you're building.
And then they talk about how to show stuff on the screen.
So if you wanna just add a line,
you can say at this XY screen,
cursor location, just write this line of text on the screen
and it'll add that.
So really easy and one of the things they do
is they pass over the file name
and it's kind of meta,
like they edit the file that is the demo
for the editor with the editor as they're building it,
which is always fun to do.
So you can do that.
But then through this article,
they go through and they build out like a window class
that talks about how big is the screen.
This is what Brett was talking about.
Like, ah, I gotta figure out what my screen looks like
and all that stuff.
And also a cursor where you are on the screen,
how to have like a view into the file,
because you might've like moved to the right a little bit
and the file might be a thousand lines,
but you've only got 40 on your screen or whatever.
So anyway, if this is interesting to you,
I think you should go through this article and check it out.
In the end, you end up with a pretty simple
but non-trivial little text editor that lets you do stuff.
So I think it's pretty neat.
What do you guys think?
- This shows me why I really hope Will grants Brian's wish
of making Rich a full TUI library.
- Yeah, I do agree.
I think if Rich, if something like that
that has a really beautiful display technology,
but also has input.
Like this is cool 'cause it has really great way
to accept user input and like update the screen,
but it's very low level.
It's like, I don't know, it's OpenGL versus Pi game
or arcade, or you're like at the level of,
here's what I put at this cursor, this XY coordinate,
let's put that there.
- Yeah, I think it's a great showing of actually
how much work it actually needs to go into making those
full text-based UIs that you see like you used to see
at the grocery store on those screen,
you probably still do it
some of your grocery stores on that screen.
And just like, or when they book your airline ticket
and you're like, oh my God, what the hell are you using?
- You do this all day.
- Yeah, exactly.
It takes a lot of work to make those things happen.
It's surprising how much work it is
and hence why getting higher level libraries,
like I think it was the Prompt Toolkit
we were told about earlier and rich and all that
would be very welcome in existing.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Do either of you guys know if there's any
cursors libraries for Windows?
Magnus is asking.
That's why he's used Prompt Toolkit before.
But I'm not sure, actually.
- Neither am I.
- Yeah, yeah.
Cool, cool.
All right, what's the next one?
Brian, you got the next one, right?
- Actually, I skipped, so Brett's next.
- All right, Brett's next, and I'll pull up Brett's thing.
All right, Brett.
- Okay.
- So there's been a major language feature
announced that it's coming in 3.10, right?
- Yes, which actually was in your quick links
at the end of episode 220,
which Brian called the five barrel foot gun,
which is pattern matching.
So one of the things that always happens
whenever there's a new Python feature that gets announced,
and especially one of this size
that gets out into the general community,
is some interesting feelings from people.
And so this is kind of slash, I don't wanna say rant,
but little, just me as a steering council member,
just trying to explain how this all came about,
where we're coming from as a steering council in general.
I mean, obviously I'm speaking for me directly,
but in general, I think how the steering council
kind of thought, but also just kind of helping
put all this in perspective, 'cause I think
For a lot of people, this might be the first big feature
that they've seen because we used to do this
all the time in Python 2.
But things kind of slowed down for Python 3.
So as I said, I've seen around the internet
a lot of people ranging from, oh, this looks really cool.
I can't wait till I can use it, to people screaming
bloody murder that we're killing Python, and oh my god,
it's the death knell of the language.
I've been doing this for 17 years.
Is that stressful for you?
It used to be?
It used to be stressful.
now it's just frustrating.
So for instance, I gave a talk at PyCon US 2018.
It was one of the keynotes about participating in open source.
And one of the key things I said in it
was people just need to try to be kind to each other.
It's kind of a very generic thing, I know.
But it really makes a difference.
As a project maintainer myself, having people tell me
what they think I need to be doing
or what I should be doing is really frustrating.
I put my personal time and effort
into helping make this happen.
And the way you respond to that
is tell me what I should be doing.
I can only imagine people who are parents
having other people tell them
how they should be raising their children.
- It's worse than helicopter parents.
It's like helicopter backseat parenting.
- Exactly.
And it's kind of the equivalent for open source maintainers.
People doing the backseat,
oh, here's what you really should be doing
with your free time,
with what little time you have left on this planet, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
- So, it used to get really upsetting,
and now I'm just frustrated and just disappointed
that this still happens.
It's also a little weird too,
'cause in Python, right?
I mean, we have tens of millions of people
using language at this point, right?
It's immeasurable, it's just cute.
Which means, even if you assume
one out of a thousand people are jerks, right?
Point one percent.
Let's do point zero one percent, right?
Like we're still talking tens of thousands
of people out there who basically know my face,
name, and address, and feel totally fine
sending me mail on occasion,
or just posting out in the comments outside
where we all congregate about what they think
I should be doing with my life.
So it's one of these things where...
- Yeah, it's just frustrating.
- I don't know how a lot of people feel about it, sorry.
But I think when you hear those negative things said to you,
even if a thousand people are appreciative,
the one negative thing you get feels so much,
it makes such a bigger, a disproportionate impact.
- 10 to one.
- Yeah, at least, at least.
- At least, and the problem is it's not relative numbers,
it's absolute numbers.
And at the scale that we're at with Python,
the absolute number of people who just haven't quite,
Either just, I mean, honestly, some people are just totally ignorant that they are speaking
this way and that they don't really realize the way they're phrasing things matters or
even that the way they're phrasing it comes off that way.
Like not everyone who says should really means for it to come off that way.
Thank you, Dean.
I appreciate the awesomeness call out.
But it's one of these things where I have to bring this up every couple of years and
then I usually end up doing a blog post, which honestly, this is kind of a rough draft of
the blog post.
talking out loud with all of you.
- Yeah.
- And bouncing ideas off all of you for the feedback.
But it's just, it gets a little exhausting
that this is something I have to bring up
every couple of years.
You'd hope that we'd all learn this by now.
It's not like open source is a newfangled thing
we've all just discovered.
But there's still this disconnect
between the consumer/user/takers of open source
versus the maintainer/producer/givers of the community.
and the disconnect of how to kind of just communicate
with each other is still there.
- Yeah.
- And so specifically when it comes to this stuff
with Python, right, is people go like,
oh my God, this is crazy.
And it's like, no, it's not.
I've been doing this for 17 years.
Everything is controversial when it comes to syntax.
True and false were controversial, right?
Like true and false.
There were arguments on Python Dev
and whether or not we should add those keywords
because they would break code
that chose to define those constants as one and zero.
- Is that's why it's capital T?
- Well, it's also 'cause they're singletons, right?
And that's just kind of the practice we follow with none.
So that was really kind of where it tied in.
I mean, it definitely helped that capital T
lowered the chances of it being false.
- It's less likely, yeah, exactly.
It's less likely, yeah.
- But that was an actual discussion we had,
was do we wanna add Booleans to the language?
Now today, everyone scoffs at that and laughs.
Like, what, are you kidding me?
Booleans, really?
everything in the language gets debated, right?
And in this too, right?
Like everyone's going like, oh my God, what are you doing?
Like, do you understand the timeline of this?
Guido brought this up, I think in July, maybe,
and had as one pep, got a massive amount of feedback
on Python dev on this, went back with his co-authors,
broke it up into three peps, 634, 635, and 636,
so that there was a PEP about the design,
a PEP about the rationale behind the design,
and the PEPVAX as a tutorial
to try to make it more easy to consume.
Brought that out in October.
We discuss it on Steering Council 2020.
We made a recommendation
that probably the next one should accept it,
but we still didn't feel we had enough time
to accept such a large thing.
Fast forward now to today,
where Steering Council 2021 had a chance to sit down
and look at the recommendation and the PEPs
and have a discussion,
including calling Guido in personally at least two times
to talk directly to the Steering Council
help us understand where he was coming from.
Like this was not a snap decision,
but everyone acts like it was.
Like this is literally taking over.
- Because it finally appears on their radar
and they're like, "Oh, where'd this come from?"
- Exactly, "Oh, it's on Hacker News today.
Suddenly it happened."
Like, no, no, no, this has been happening.
This has been in discussion actively
in public for six months.
I first heard Guido talking with someone
at a language summit in 2018
about the idea of pattern matching.
Like this has been on people's radar
as something people have wanted for that long.
And I'll fully admit, I wanted it.
Pattern matching is something I've wanted for a long time.
But it's just one of these things, once again, people just don't stop and think about the
time and effort that goes into all this behind the scenes.
It's just, in my world view, this just happened versus, oh, there's probably stuff that happened
that I'm just not aware of.
And specifically about this, one thing I always notice about this is people need to understand
the way the language is designed, right?
We aim to increase your productivity.
Now that means different things to different people,
but in general, it means keeping a language
that's easy to understand
and small enough to have in your head,
but also leads to you being more productive,
which also means readability, right?
There's a lot of side effects that we all appreciate
that come with productivity,
but that's really the ultimate goal to me.
It's not that the language is readable.
Readable makes you productive.
And for pattern matching, there are certain algorithms
that are just really difficult to do
without pattern matching, right?
Like the classic examples are parsers and compilers.
And they're not easy to do without having pattern matching.
There's a reason why functional parting language
that have had pattern matching for a very long time
are the best places to right now
to typically write a parser or compiler
because the algorithm just works so much better that way.
So there were reasons why we brought this in.
There will be increases in productivity for some people.
We do realize that it is a big lift,
but we also realize not everyone's gonna see this day one.
This is not, it is way more than a switch statement,
which I know a lot of people typically look at it as, right?
The key point is it matches on structure.
It's not matching necessarily just on value, right?
This is the big difference
between an if statement versus not.
And so there was a lot of work behind this.
So there are reasons, like this was not major.
The other thing I keep seeing about this
is people going, oh, this is not Pythonic.
- Well, I hate to break it to people.
- Well, it is now.
- Yeah, I hate to break it to people,
But Guido van Rossum, the creator of Python,
and thus probably the harbinger of what is Pythonic,
is a co-author and a big pusher of this pep, right?
Like Guido helped make this happen.
So unless you wanna go up to him at PyCon
and tell Guido that he doesn't know
what's Pythonic or what's not,
I think we kind of just have to go with it,
that this is now what is considered Pythonic.
And I will say, I have seen people say,
oh my God, this is what happens when we lose the BDFL.
Like the person who was the BDFL made this happen, right?
- Yeah, yeah, it's not that.
- It's a really funny disconnect with people.
Like Guido drove this.
Like Guido talked to the steering council about this.
Like he was the point person for this.
Like he really helped make this happen.
So it's as Pythonic as it can be
if you consider Guido the creator and head person
in terms of the design of the language,
which I will fully admit I still do.
I kind of view Guido no longer as being BDFL,
as kind of he relinquished bureaucratic overhead costs
in his life of the language.
And the steering council was more or less taking that on.
but I still trust Guido's gut more or less.
Like if he really went off the rails, we'd stop him,
but I don't think this is him going off the rails.
I think this is us going like,
he's that one step ahead of us.
- Yeah, and Eschuleon says,
I just wrote a horrible if LF statement
and he's looking forward to pattern matching.
- Yeah, I mean, there are some real places
where I think there's gonna be benefits
to ways to structure things
that will just make things look better.
- Yeah, and Magnus says,
- And it agrees with me that Python's full spectrum language
and it just extends that spectrum.
- Yeah, right.
It's, yeah, thanks for that, Magnus.
It's one of these things I think some people lose track of
that being beginner friendly does not mean
only for beginners.
And that's where this productivity thing comes in.
- I think that's actually a huge part of Python success,
right?
Visual Basic 6 was awesome for beginners, for example.
But it just, it stopped.
Like, well, you can't do that here.
You're at the limit.
I'm sorry.
I wanna be at the limit, I wanna learn C++, don't make me.
- Hey, if you wanna be beginner friendly,
go code and scratch.
No one wants to write production code and scratch.
It's great to get going, but there's a limit.
- One of the great quotes that I've heard
that I think applies to Python is that
you can do easy things simply,
but you can do difficult things that are possible.
And I know I got that quote wrong, but.
- It's definitely close enough that I'll just go with it.
That is very true, that is the goal here,
is to make the common things easy and simple
and definitely approachable
and make the hard things at least possible.
And this is part of it.
This opens up the possibility for things
that were really difficult to do in Python before.
- Yeah, fantastic.
- So yeah, so I'm thinking of doing a blog post
about this whole rant called
the social contract of open source
to try to harp on this whole shoot versus need
and just, it's okay.
Criticism is totally acceptable.
is just be understanding about how you're delivering it
because we're all on the internet, we do here,
and indirectly you will suffer
because guess what, that project you're using
is gonna then suffer based on what you say,
so it does matter.
- Yeah.
- And just one aside, I think last podcast,
Michael said this was influenced from Haskell.
It's actually, the design comes a lot from Scala,
specifically for this. - Okay.
- But we got list comprehensions from Scala,
So we have actually gotten some nice things out of Scala.
- Interesting.
Yeah, okay, very interesting, yeah.
Yeah, I mean, my feeling is it's a big step, I think.
It's gonna take a while to really see the value of it
if you're not working directly in a place
where it's one of these algorithms that applies a lot,
but I think it'll be good.
- Yeah, it's definitely one of those things
that when you see it for the first time,
if you're not used to using a language,
like most functional languages that have pattern matching,
It goes like, what?
Why?
And then when you get exposed to it,
when you start to use it more, it
starts much like learning another programming language.
It starts to tweak your approach to certain algorithms
and stuff.
And it's just another tool in your toolbox, really.
>>Nice.
Well, Brian, you've got the follow-up, huh?
>>Yeah, so actually, that's why I thought this
would be good as a follow-up.
So Guido announced that he wrote the introduction
to pattern matching.
and that it's now part of an appendix A of PEP 636.
So I went off and looked at it
and it actually really helped me a lot.
So this introduction kind of,
I actually, I've been trying to follow this PEP
and honestly been confused for a while
as to like exactly how it's working.
A lot of people have been focusing on the weird parts,
but the easy parts actually are really nice.
So I really, there's an example that it starts off with
that kind of looks like a switch statement, right?
So it's a, I want to match a status and like an HTTP status.
And then I do something different based on 400 or 404, 418.
And then, of course we're like, well,
what about default, right?
So there's going to be some sort of fall through
that I handle all the other cases.
And there's an example of that.
And I was actually curious,
The example here shows using just a single underscore
variable, magic variable, as a catch-all.
And so, Brett, I was just curious,
can I use any variable here, or does it
need to be the single underscore?
Do you know?
So I was actually going to comment on this
when you were done.
So the underscore actually has some special semantics here,
because in most languages that have pattern matching,
the underscore represents the wildcard.
This has actually been one of the most controversial parts
of PEP 634 was the selection of this
to stay consistent with other languages.
While I will not suggest to people
that there is an opportunity to remove pattern matching
or to necessarily have massive changes to it,
one of the things that if people try this out
in real world code and can get feedback to us
well before beta one locks in and gets released,
'cause that's our cutoff for feature changes
for Python 3.10, which will be in May.
This is one of those areas where we could actually
consider changing, right?
Like fixing up code to change this case wildcard syntax
of an underscore to something else is totally possible
if we got feedback from the community that,
yeah, this really was a nasty sticking point
and really didn't work out well.
So I do wanna say that there is still a chance
to potentially influence the final outcome of how
the exact thing is, although I don't want to suggest that--
- 'Cause it's not shipped in 3.10 yet, right?
- Exactly, it's not shipped in 3.10 yet.
So we can tweak if necessary, but don't come out,
I wouldn't suggest people come out
and try to completely rewrite the entire syntax,
but in this specific case, yes, it is special.
Yes, some people don't like it.
And if enough people really came forward
and really said this is the one thing I'd want to tweak,
I think we'd be open to considering.
- Well, the underscore gets used so much
for so many interesting things.
Like why not one more?
Make it, replace the mystique.
- I personally, I don't care.
I just want to know what it is.
I mean, I didn't like spaces instead of braces
when I first hit it.
So anyway, but what happens if I put like X there
instead of a underscore?
- If you put X, so the rules here basically are
if you put a single name that has no dot in it,
it's a binding.
If you put a name there with a dot, it will be a binding.
Now, this is one of the things that I learned from Guido
in one of our meetings that really helped clarify this
for me and one of the reasons I ended up
voting to accept this was let's look at the,
like consider these cases, right?
Return codes.
You're probably not gonna hard code 400 and 404 and 418.
You're gonna import the HTTP.status module
and you're gonna specify the constants from there, right?
Do you really wanna rebind those constants
by accident in your code?
- Oh, no.
- No, but because it's been imported from a module
or off a class, for instance,
you're not gonna be wanting to do assignment,
you're just gonna wanna reference it.
So if there's a dot in the name,
it automatically is just a reference.
Now, some people get really hung up on that
when they think about the single binding of a name,
understandably, but here's the thing,
is while this is a case right now
where if you had just a bare name, that's a bind,
where if there's a dot in it,
it's actually gonna be a reference and a load
to do a value check.
There is a potential in the future
if people come back after trying out the pep
and having experience with pattern matching
to add to the language, a leading dot,
which is actually used in Swift, by the way,
in the Swift community for something else.
But the key point is we can make it like a dot X
to act as a load for comparison for a local--
- That's an interesting syntactical use.
Like it's not actually coming from anywhere,
but treat it as if it were.
- Exactly.
Now this was originally in the PEP
and there was massive pushback from people thinking
that they would totally miss the dot.
But Corey Benfield who used to run requests and all that
and has multiple talks from PyCon,
person who helped me start pushing
Sans I/O development of libraries in the community.
He works at Apple now on Swift stuff
and he posted something on Twitter and I asked him like,
hey, does that leading dot have any problems with Swift?
And they said, actually the whole community
is totally fine with it.
There's no readability problems.
It just totally works.
Not an issue.
So we could potentially in the next version of Python
actually make it so that, have it a dot in the name,
whether it's just leading or not.
We could actually generalize that.
But because it's a forward compatible thing
and backwards compatible,
we decided not to do that in this path
and just try to just keep it simple,
Keep it simpler than it had to be necessary to go out and then add the opportunity.
So if I just put a bare X, it's going, will it hit it and will it bind to it and assign the value to X?
Yes.
Okay. Actually, that's what I expected because as I go down this little tutorial, it talks about like,
like unpacking, which is totally cool.
So let's say you have like the example is a point object,
which is like just an XY tuple.
Now I wanna be able to, if I, in the case statements
are specific points that you're gonna match to,
or like, let's say you don't care what X is,
but you want to fix Y at zero.
In the case block,
You want to know what the value of X was.
So you do want that binding.
And that's really just cool.
I can't wait to play with this.
So my follow-up question, I'm glad you showed up here,
is when can I play with this?
Is this in one of the alphas now or betas?
Or do you know?
- I don't know if it's, I don't think it's landed yet.
Bram Butcher, who's one of the co-authors of the PEP,
has a working implementation already,
which is actually available in a Jupyter,
was available in a Jupyter notebook somewhere.
So there's definitely a fork somewhere
where you can try this out.
But this is not landed in mainline,
so it's not out in alpha quite yet.
One thing I did wanna point out about this
that's really kind of cool,
with the example that Brian's showing here,
is the match against a point argument,
as he said, that takes a two item tuple.
You could actually change this
to also accept a single item tuple
that represented X and Y with the same value.
and that would totally match separately as well.
So once again, this is matching against structure.
So you could actually pass in tuples of different sizes
and have it automatically just kind of infer
based on the shape.
- Maybe do something different with 2D or 3D.
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, exactly.
So because it's a structural thing and not a value thing,
it opens those very interesting doors.
- Interesting.
Yeah, cool, it's really great to have you here
to talk about all this stuff.
Final comment, close this one out, I guess.
ZDoc says, "I think once good syntax highlighting lands,
this will be as natural as list comparisons."
- Yeah, and that's actually a good point.
One of the things we had discussed was,
Mike, the leading dot, how hard would that be to see
with or without syntax highlighting?
And we realized that, honestly,
syntax highlighting will probably do it.
One thing some people were a little worried about
was the reason this is even possible
was because of the new parser that landed in Python 3.9,
the new pgem parser, it can do more contextualized parsing.
So that match, for instance, isn't gonna suddenly make
all your match keywords or the match method
on from the RE module on match objects suddenly not work.
It contextually can tell that that match keyword
is for a match statement.
So there might be a little funky coloring for some people
based on how your syntax highlighting works.
Like you might suddenly have all your match methods
highlighted like it was the match keyword,
but honestly, it'll be from what you're looking at
in terms of the code, it's gonna be fairly obvious
that is not a match statement,
so we weren't too worried about that kind of haziness
as it were when it comes to syntax.
- No, this is cool.
- I know a guy on the VS Code team, so.
- Yeah, so do I.
(laughing)
- You see him every morning in the mirror.
- A quick plug and thank you to Magic Python,
which comes from the Magic Python team,
Magic Stack, the people who do EdgeDB,
they actually maintain the syntax highlighting
that we use in VS Code,
as well as I think is using some blind text and add them,
like they have a generic grammar that they use
that they just auto-gen out to various editors
for their syntax, mostly text format,
but kudos to them for always maintaining
that syntax highlighting,
'cause that's actually what VS Code itself ships in the box.
- That's awesome.
- Yeah, nice.
- Brian, I don't have any extras, do you?
- I don't know.
- No?
Brian, anything else you wanna throw out there
before we make a bad joke?
- No, just thanks for having me on.
Thank you for everyone listening to me rant on
about how to please try to talk to maintainers
to help them keep their sanity.
And that's it.
I hope people give the Python Launcher a shot
and it works for them.
- Yeah, that's very exciting.
- Let me know.
I can't make any promises about it shipping
specifically with Python,
But at least it's a tool there that I find useful
and I hope others do as well.
- Cool, I'll definitely check that one out.
All right, you guys ready for the joke?
You know, we're all stuck at home
and especially if you're single,
it's really tricky to get out and meet people
and you know, whatnot.
See what's gonna make you happy.
So I got a joke along those lines
to kind of help people out there.
Ready?
- Mm-hmm.
- All right, so there's this tweet by Christina Zhu.
says, "If you're not happy single,
"you won't be happy in a relationship."
I mean, we've all heard this,
how important it is to be just like content with yourself.
She says, "No, true happiness comes
"from closing 100 Chrome tabs
"after solving an obscure programming bug,
"not from other people."
Come on.
(laughing)
- Yeah. - Anyway,
I thought that was good.
And kiki.
(laughing)
- Are you two the type of folk
who have like a bazillion tabs open at any one time,
or are you more like,
"I'll only keep open exactly what I'm working on,
And as soon as I'm done, I close them.
- I am not a 100 tab person, but what I do sometimes,
I'll like leave the tabs open, like,
oh, I'm not done with this.
And so I'll close it.
If I got to reboot the computer,
the first thing I do is reopen the browser
and say history restore previous session.
Cause I'm like, there were things in there.
I don't know what I was doing, but I know they're important.
So I may abuse that a little bit.
- My daughter came to me once and said,
I need dad like finals and then my laptop is too slow.
I need a new laptop.
"Okay, well, let's talk about what you're doing."
Well, she was doing like three research projects
and had like a hundred tabs open.
And I'm like, "Well, let's just try this first.
"Can I tell you about this cool thing called bookmarks?"
Anyway, totally fixed it.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
- Hipster dad showing bookmarks to the youngsters.
(laughing)
- Yeah, Magnus says, "The number of tabs
"is a measure of how hard the problem is."
And Neil's says, "Great rant.
Love your work, Brett."
- Thank you very much. - Great to have you
on the show, Brett.
- I always happy to be on.
- Yep.
All right, well, thanks for being here.
Thanks everyone.
Brian. - Thank you.
- Thanks as always.
- Bye all.
(clicking)